h1. ØMQ transport layer plugin for Elasticsearch

This is a fork of https://github.com/tlrx/transport-zeromq that uses JeroMQ (a pure Java implementation of ZeroMQ) instead of the native library Jzmq.

Also, this fork is build (right now) against ElasticSearch 1.3.2.

Please, refer to the original project for instructions

h2. Versions

|_. ØMQ Transport Plugin|_. ElasticSearch	|_. ØMQ	|
|  master (0.0.3)   	|  master (1.3.2)	| 3.2.5	|


h2. Installation

h3. Requirements

Just nothing!. This fork uses a native implementation in Java of ZeroMQ client, so installing platform ZeroMQ libraries or Java bindings is not required

h3. Installation

Type the command in your favorite shell :

<pre>
$ bin\plugin -install ddani/transport-zeromq-jeromq/0.0.6
</pre>

Elasticsearch automatically install the plugin:

<pre>
-> Installing ddani/transport-zeromq-jeromq/0.0.6...
Trying https://github.com/downloads/ddani/transport-zeromq-jeromq/transport-zeromq-jeromq-0.0.6.zip...
Downloading ..........DONE
Installed transport-zeromq-jeromq
</pre>

Finally, edit Elasticsearch configuration file @config/elasticsearch.yml@ and add the properties:

<pre>
# ZeroMQ Transport config
zeromq.router.bind: tcp://*:9700
zeromq.workers.threads: 2
zeromq.workers.bind: inproc://es_zeromq_workers
</pre>

Restart Elasticsearch.

h2. Behind the scene

The plugin exposes the REST interfaces of Elasticsearch over ØMQ sockets. The implementation uses a "router-dealer pattern":http://www.zeromq.org/sandbox:dealer, where multiple ROUTER sockets (2 by default, see @zeromq.workers.threads@) are listening to incoming messages (each in a dedicated thread) send by DEALER sockets on the @zeromq.router.bind@ address. This way, it is possible to send REST-like messages with ØMQ clients and get the replies back. 

For example, a ØMQ client can send the following message:
<pre>POST|/twitter/tweet/2|{"user" : "kimchy", "post_date" : "2009-11-15T14:12:12", "message" : "You know, for Search"}</pre>

It will receive the following response back: 
<pre>201|CREATED|{"ok" : true, "_index" : "twitter", "_type" : "tweet", "_id" : "2", "_version" : 1}</pre>

The transport layer converts ØMQ messages in a given format into REST request objects that can be handled by ES. 

The expected format for incoming messages is: 
<pre><code> <Method PUT,DELETE, POST...>|<URI, including parameters>|<JSON content> </code></pre>

The format for outcoming message is:
<pre><code> <Status code>|<Status name>|<JSON reply content> </code></pre>

But any other message format can be easely implemented if needed.



h3. Simple ØMQ client to test the plugin

The @SimpleClient@ Java class in test package shows how to create a simple ØMQ client and send messages. In your test, take care to add the native library to classpath (@-Djava.library.path=/usr/local/lib@).

h4. Add new document

Message:
<pre>java org.elasticsearch.zeromq.test.SimpleClient tcp://localhost:9700 PUT /twitter/tweet/2 "{\"user\": \"kimchy\",\"post_date\": \"2009-11-15T14:12:12\",\"message\": \"You know, for Search\"}"</pre>

Reply:
<pre>201|CREATED|{"ok" : true, "_index" : "twitter", "_type" : "tweet", "_id" : "2", "_version" : 1}</pre>


h4. Search for document

Message:
<pre>java org.elasticsearch.zeromq.test.SimpleClient tcp://localhost:9700 GET /twitter/tweet/_search?q=user:kimchy</pre>

Reply:
<pre>200|OK|{"took" : 29, "timed_out" : false, "_shards" : {"total" : 5, "successful" : 5, "failed" : 0}, "hits" : {"total" : 1, "max_score" : 0.30685282, "hits" : [{"_index" : "twitter", "_type" : "tweet", "_id" : "2", "_score" : 0.30685282, "_source" : {
    "user" : "kimchy",
    "post_date" : "2009-11-15T14:12:12",
    "message" : "You know, for Search"
}}]}}
</pre>


h4. Delete a document

Message:
<pre>java org.elasticsearch.zeromq.test.SimpleClient tcp://localhost:9700 DELETE /twitter/tweet/2</pre>

Reply:
<pre>200|OK|{"ok" : true, "found" : true, "_index" : "twitter", "_type" : "tweet", "_id" : "2", "_version" : 2}</pre>


h3. Other examples

The @ZMQTransportPluginTest@ Java class in test package has other examples.


Thanks to "David Pilato":https://github.com/dadoonet for the Maven pom and README files.

